# Top

## Use Periodization

Why You Can't Bench Press 225 for Reps Manage your volume and intensity

Find a proper periodization program

## Build your workouts around the big Four

Squats, bench press, deadlifts, overhead press https://www.bodybuilding.com/content/5-quick-tips-for-packing-on-size.html

## Get enough sleep every night (7-8 hours)

https://www.bodybuilding.com/content/your-blueprint-for-bigger-arms.html

# Lift heavy AND light

Light Weights vs Heavy Weights for Muscle Growth

Practice the heavy, hard lifts
https://www.bodybuilding.com/content/5-quick-tips-for-packing-on-size.html

# Use different rep ranges

https://www.bodybuilding.com/content/your-effective-focused-triceps-only-workout.html

# Bulk clean

https://www.bodybuilding.com/content/5-quick-tips-for-packing-on-size.html

# Mental

Use positive affirmations
https://www.bodybuilding.com/content/affirmations-help-you-gain-more-confidence-lift-more-weight.html

# Workout with intensity

https://www.bodybuilding.com/content/your-blueprint-for-bigger-arms.html

https://www.bodybuilding.com/content/5-quick-tips-for-packing-on-size.html

# Consume a post-workout shake

https://www.bodybuilding.com/content/your-blueprint-for-bigger-arms.html

# Stretch after every workout

https://www.bodybuilding.com/content/your-blueprint-for-bigger-arms.html

# Workout lagging parts 2x week for 10 weeks

https://www.bodybuilding.com/content/your-blueprint-for-bigger-arms.html

Heavy day; light day

# Pause and squeeze on the contraction

https://www.bodybuilding.com/content/your-effective-focused-triceps-only-workout.html

https://www.bodybuilding.com/content/your-blueprint-for-bigger-arms.html

# Use cheat reps but only after good form reps

https://www.bodybuilding.com/content/your-blueprint-for-bigger-arms.html

# Lift quickly (concentric, positive) and lower slowly (eccentric, negative)

https://www.bodybuilding.com/content/your-blueprint-for-bigger-arms.html

# Get carbs before and after workouts

https://www.bodybuilding.com/content/your-blueprint-for-bigger-arms.html

# Eat every 2-3 hours

https://www.bodybuilding.com/content/your-blueprint-for-bigger-arms.html

# Vary power & strength days with hypertrophy days

https://www.bodybuilding.com/content/unlock-shoulder-growth-this-month.html

# Incorporate HIIT

https://www.bodybuilding.com/content/hiit-training-for-strength-athletes-do-it-without-losing-gains.html Interval sprints, Squats, burpees, lunges, sit-ups, and push-ups

https://www.bodybuilding.com/content/5-quick-tips-for-packing-on-size.html

5-8 exercises, 30-60 seconds each, 20-30 second rest

Superset 3-4 exercises, As Many Rounds as Possible within X minutes (10)

# Legs

Be Able to Do 20 Pushups before you start training chest
Smith Machine Better Than Free Weights

For legs, squat Leg Workout Tips for Mass (SKINNY LEGS EDITION!)

Start somewhere
Squats, Use full range of motion Leg Workout Tips for Mass (SKINNY LEGS EDITION!)

Squats - practice rest pause at bottom Leg Workout Tips for Mass (SKINNY LEGS EDITION!)

Squats - use deadlift to learn how to push with your feet Leg Workout Tips for Mass (SKINNY LEGS EDITION!)

Legs - train in multiple planes Leg Workout Tips for Mass (SKINNY LEGS EDITION!) For example, use 3D lunges

Squats - do Bulgarian split squat Leg Workout Tips for Mass (SKINNY LEGS EDITION!)

Squats - Warm Up with Pigeon Position Front Stretch, 2 Min Per Side Squat & Glute Warm Up | Trevor Bachmeyer | SmashweRx Unlock the external rotation

Squats - Warm Up with Band Stretches Outward

Squat & Glute Warm Up | Trevor Bachmeyer | SmashweRx

Squats - Go Ass to Grass 3 Quick Tips For BIGGER QUADS! | STOP SQUATTING ON THE LEG PRESS!

Leg Press - Pay Attention to Foot Position Compliment squats with leg press

    Higher - hams
    Closer - outer quads
    Outside - inner quads

Even on bad days, find something in you to step up - get intense Shoulder Day With Phil Heath -

# Deadlifts

Deadlift - think about it as a push exercise, not a pull Leg Workout Tips for Mass (SKINNY LEGS EDITION!)

# Shoulders

Shoulder raises - turn pinky out Shoulder Day With Phil Heath - Training Tips

Shoulders - do real delt raises Shoulder Day With Phil Heath - Training Tips

Shoulders - do front raises with bar Shoulder Day With Phil Heath - Training Tips

Shoulders - do cable high rows for rear delts Shoulder Day With Phil Heath - Training Tips Doing it wrong if you feel it in your triceps

Shoulders - do shoulder press Shoulder Day With Phil Heath - Training Tips

For Traps, Use Rack Pulls above the Knee with Static Hold (3-5 Seconds)

HOW TO BUILD MASSIVE TRAPS 101: Rack Pulls & Power Shrugs (Ft. AlphaDestiny)

For Traps, Use Power Shrugs

Heavy Weight

# Intensity

Intensity - Do 8 sets with 30 seconds rest
https://www.bodybuilding.com/content/7-ways-to-make-your-workouts-more-hardcore.html

Intensity - limit yourself to 40 minutes an pack more I
https://www.bodybuilding.com/content/7-ways-to-make-your-workouts-more-hardcore.html

Use unilateral training
https://www.bodybuilding.com/content/7-ways-to-make-your-workouts-more-hardcore.html Helps prevent muscle imbalances

Intensity - add burpees between sets
https://www.bodybuilding.com/content/7-ways-to-make-your-workouts-more-hardcore.html

Don't be on social media in between sets
https://www.bodybuilding.com/content/your-blueprint-for-bigger-arms.html

Incorporate AMRAP
https://www.bodybuilding.com/content/hiit-training-for-strength-athletes-do-it-without-losing-gains.html

# Programming

Use pyramid sets
https://www.bodybuilding.com/content/7-ways-to-make-your-workouts-more-hardcore.html Start lighter weight with higher reps, move towards heavier weight with fewer reps and then back down

# Calves

Calves - do seated barbell calf raises
https://www.bodybuilding.com/content/unlock-calf-growth-with-these-3-exercises.html Use a towel

Calves - do single leg calf press
https://www.bodybuilding.com/content/unlock-calf-growth-with-these-3-exercises.html

Calves - vary the ways your toes point (in, middle, out)
https://www.bodybuilding.com/content/unlock-calf-growth-with-these-3-exercises.html

Tibia - do tibia barbell raise
https://www.bodybuilding.com/content/unlock-calf-growth-with-these-3-exercises.html

Calves - stretch and flex in between sets
https://www.bodybuilding.com/content/unlock-calf-growth-with-these-3-exercises.html

# Nutrition

Eat eggs
https://www.askmen.com/sports/foodcourt/foods-that-will-help-you-bulk-up-2.html

Eat lean beef
https://www.askmen.com/sports/foodcourt/foods-that-will-help-you-bulk-up-2.html

Eat nuts
https://www.askmen.com/sports/foodcourt/foods-that-will-help-you-bulk-up-2.html

Eat cottage cheese
https://www.askmen.com/sports/foodcourt/foods-that-will-help-you-bulk-up-2.html

Eat avocados https://www.askmen.com/sports/foodcourt/foods-that-will-help-you-bulk-up-2.html

Eat salmon
https://www.askmen.com/sports/foodcourt/foods-that-will-help-you-bulk-up-2.html

Eat peanut butter
https://www.askmen.com/sports/foodcourt/foods-that-will-help-you-bulk-up-2.html

Eat quinoa
https://www.askmen.com/sports/foodcourt/foods-that-will-help-you-bulk-up-2.html

Each chicken
https://www.askmen.com/sports/foodcourt/foods-that-will-help-you-bulk-up-2.html

Eat olive oil
https://www.askmen.com/sports/foodcourt/foods-that-will-help-you-bulk-up-2.html

# Triceps

Triceps - Do Wide Grip Skullcrushers and Pressdowns
https://www.bodybuilding.com/content/your-effective-focused-triceps-only-workout.html Works the long head (often neglected)

Triceps - Do Bodyweight Tricep Extensions
https://www.bodybuilding.com/content/your-effective-focused-triceps-only-workout.html

Triceps - Use JM Press
https://www.bodybuilding.com/exercises/jm-press

# Supplements

Use BCAA's intraworkout
https://www.bodybuilding.com/content/your-blueprint-for-bigger-arms.html

https://www.bodybuilding.com/content/5-quick-tips-for-packing-on-size.html

Take Beta-Alanine for HIIT
https://www.bodybuilding.com/content/7-ways-to-make-your-workouts-more-hardcore.html

Take HMB
https://www.bodybuilding.com/content/5-quick-tips-for-packing-on-size.html

Supplement with Creatine
https://www.bodybuilding.com/content/5-quick-tips-for-packing-on-size.html

# Core

Do burpees
https://www.bodybuilding.com/content/10-best-bodyweight-exercises-to-train-your-core.html

Do jacknife sit-ups
https://www.bodybuilding.com/content/10-best-bodyweight-exercises-to-train-your-core.html

Do mountain climbers
https://www.bodybuilding.com/content/10-best-bodyweight-exercises-to-train-your-core.html

Do cocoons
https://www.bodybuilding.com/content/10-best-bodyweight-exercises-to-train-your-core.html

Do oblique crunches
https://www.bodybuilding.com/content/10-best-bodyweight-exercises-to-train-your-core.html

Do hanging leg raises
https://www.bodybuilding.com/content/10-best-bodyweight-exercises-to-train-your-core.html

Do planks
https://www.bodybuilding.com/content/10-best-bodyweight-exercises-to-train-your-core.html

Do dead bugs
https://www.bodybuilding.com/content/10-best-bodyweight-exercises-to-train-your-core.html

Do reverse crunches
https://www.bodybuilding.com/content/10-best-bodyweight-exercises-to-train-your-core.html

Do seated scissor kicks
https://www.bodybuilding.com/content/10-best-bodyweight-exercises-to-train-your-core.html
